README.md, before:

# general-shortener

This application is to shorten links, texts (Markdown supported) and files into short and easy to read `slugs`
This image doesn't need any persistent storage. Everything is saved on s3 and redis. Configuration will be set with environment variables

### Adding new content

There will be an open endpoint called `%BASE_URL%/new`
With an standard post request you can add new content (More about it on %BASE_URL%/docs)

The body of the post request looks like this (json and form-data are accepted):

```json
{
	"password": "%AUTHENTICATION_PASSWORD%",
	"type": "file | url | text",
	"value": "for url and text",
	"file": "Sent via form-data for type file"
}
```

### Environment variables

| Variable                | Default value | Description                                             | Optional |
| ----------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| SERVER_PORT             | 5000          |                                                         | y        |
| SERVER_BASE_URL         |               | The base url the server is running on                   | n        |
|                         |               |                                                         |          |
| AUTHENTICATION_PASSWORD |               | The password to upload new things                       | n        |
|                         |               |                                                         |          |
| REDIS_HOST              |               |                                                         | n        |
| REDIS_PORT              |               |                                                         | n        |
| REDIS_PASSWORD          |               |                                                         | n        |
|                         |               |                                                         |          |
| STORAGE_DRIVER          |               | either `s3` or `local`, specify the following variables | n        |
|                         |               |                                                         |          |
| STORAGE_LOCAL_DIR       |               | Location of the directory to save the uploaded files    | n\*      |
|                         |               |                                                         |          |
| STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY   |               |                                                         | n\*      |
| STORAGE_S3_SECRET_KEY   |               |                                                         | n\*      |
| STORAGE_S3_ENDPOINT     |               | The endpoint s3 is running on                           | n\*      |
| STORAGE_S3_BUCKET       |               | the bucket to save files on                             | n\*      |
|                         |               |                                                         |          |
| HTTP_404_REDIRECT       |               | Set to redirect if slug not found                       | y        |
| HTTP_BASE_REDIRECT      |               | Set to redirect on url base `/`                         | y        |

### Example configuration

```
version: '3.0'
services:
  redis:
    image: redis
    restart: always
    volumes:
      - "redis:/data"
    command: redis-server --requirepass redis
  s3:
    image: minio/minio:latest
    restart: always
    volumes:
      - "s3:/data"
    environment:
      - MINIO_ROOT_USER=minio
      - MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD=miniopassword
    command: server /data
  general-shortener:
    image: docker.pkg.github.com/merkeg/general-shortener/general-shortener:{VERSION}
    restart: always
    environment:
      - SERVER_BASE_URL=https://example.com
      - AUTHENTICATION_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
      - REDIS_HOST=redis
      - REDIS_PORT=6379
      - REDIS_PASSWORD=redis
      - STORAGE_DRIVER=s3
      - STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY=minio
      - STORAGE_S3_SECRET_KEY=miniopassword
      - STORAGE_S3_ENDPOINT=http://s3:9000
      - STORAGE_S3_BUCKET=slugs
    depends_on:
      - redis
      - s3
volumes:
  redis:
  s3:
```

Commit message:

Added the possibility to delete an slug Simplified code and removed deprecated s3 and oauth2 code

README.md, after:

# general-shortener

This application is to shorten links, text (with markdown support) and files into short and easy to read `slugs`
Configuration will be set with environment variables:

### Adding new content

There will be an open endpoint called `%BASE_URL%/new`
With an standard post request you can add new content (More about it on %BASE_URL%/docs)

The body of the post request looks like this (json and form-data are accepted):

```json
{
	"password": "%AUTHENTICATION_PASSWORD%",
	"type": "file | url | text",
	"value": "for url and text",
	"file": "Sent via form-data for type file"
}
```

You can delete an entry with an delete request to the specified slug you want to delete. `DELETE: %BASE_URL%/:slug`

### Environment variables

| Variable                | Default value | Description                                          | Optional |
| ----------------------- | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| SERVER_PORT             | 5000          |                                                      | y        |
| SERVER_BASE_URL         |               | The base url the server is running on                | n        |
|                         |               |                                                      |          |
| AUTHENTICATION_PASSWORD |               | The password to upload new entries                   | n        |
|                         |               |                                                      |          |
| REDIS_HOST              |               |                                                      | n        |
| REDIS_PORT              |               |                                                      | n        |
| REDIS_PASSWORD          |               |                                                      | n        |
|                         |               |                                                      |          |
| STORAGE_DRIVER          |               | currently, only `local` is supported.                | n        |
|                         |               |                                                      |          |
| STORAGE_LOCAL_DIR       |               | Location of the directory to save the uploaded files | n\*      |
|                         |               |                                                      |          |
| HTTP_404_REDIRECT       |               | Set to redirect if slug not found                    | y        |
| HTTP_BASE_REDIRECT      |               | Set to redirect on url base `/`                      | y        |

### Example configuration

```
version: '3.0'
services:
  redis:
    image: redis
    restart: always
    volumes:
      - "redis:/data"
    command: redis-server --requirepass redis
  s3:
    image: minio/minio:latest
    restart: always
    volumes:
      - "s3:/data"
    environment:
      - MINIO_ROOT_USER=minio
      - MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD=miniopassword
    command: server /data
  general-shortener:
    image: docker.pkg.github.com/merkeg/general-shortener/general-shortener:{VERSION}
    restart: always
    environment:
      - SERVER_BASE_URL=https://example.com
      - AUTHENTICATION_PASSWORD=PASSWORD
      - REDIS_HOST=redis
      - REDIS_PORT=6379
      - REDIS_PASSWORD=redis
      - STORAGE_DRIVER=local
      - STORAGE_LOCAL_DIR=/screenshots
    depends_on:
      - redis
      - s3
volumes:
  redis:
  s3:
```
